After deciding the problem space and the user group, each of us chose an aspect of problem space and started looking up relevant academic publications. From our summary result, we found out that the simplicity of a digital app is proportional to the user satisfaction. Moreover, the opportunity to make them closer to the health professionals by using technology is a great desired aspect. By using this feature, taking care of the issues behind diabetes become possible. During our research, we must find out what digital technologies have been most widely adopted because it is important to identify what technologies users have adopted, as adopting a new technology is actually a behaviour change and people can only make one behaviour change at a time. 


We also finalized the detail of problem space and user group, especially the method of recruiting participants for our user research plan. Those participants should satisfy the same requirements as our potential users -- 55+ years old with diabetes. We intend to seek out research participants from local (Toronto) support groups. For instance, the Canadian Diabetes Association (CDA) organizes local support groups. Another possible source of users may be the Banting & Best Diabetes Center (BBDC) at the University of Toronto.


The user research was conducted in 3 ways: questionnaire, interview and observation study. For the interview, we asked our participants their opinions on some current health management tools/aids. It includes what they like about those tools and what trouble participants have with them, as well as the difficulty of learning them. The interview was semi-structured and we would refer to the interview script during the talk. The questionnaire covers similar topic as the interview. It has some open-ended questions, leaving freedom of ideas to the participants. Finally we observed participants by giving them a mobile application / device (preferably health-related) and ask them how much they can figure out of the application in the allotted time. Their attitude towards the device and their emotion were also going to be observed when they are using the apps. All participants must sign the consent form and read the research protocol before proceeding to user research.
